DOCS-10054 Maven v3 (#123)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/to-publish-assets-maven.adoc

endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

> With Anypoint Exchange's https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-maven-facade-api-http/[Maven Facade], Maven clients can publish and consume Exchange assets, including these asset types:

Reviewer: GLOBALLY avoid making trademarks and other proprietary names possessive, per style ref and term pres list. You can just use the plain form, which acts as an adjective or nonhyphenated compound adjective.

```suggestion
With Anypoint Exchange https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-maven-facade-api-http/[Maven Facade], Apache Maven clients can publish and consume Exchange assets, including these asset types:
```

Reviewer: Adde "API" after Maven Facade?

> * Connectors

Reviewer: Anypoint Connectors

Include the required plugin `org.mule.tools.maven.mule-maven-plugin` in your POM file. Do not include the plugin `org.apache.maven.plugins.maven-deploy-plugin` in your POM file or settings file, because it is not compatible with the required plugin.

> Using Anypoint Exchange's Maven Facade API version 3 to publish assets to Exchange requires the Mule Maven plugin version 3.5.0 or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Anypoint Exchange Maven Facade API version 3 to publish assets to Exchange requires the Mule Maven plugin version 3.5.0 or later.
```
Consider active voice:
```suggestion
If you use Anypoint Exchange Maven Facade API version 3 to publish assets to Exchange, you must have the Mule Maven plugin version 3.5.0 or later.
```

Note: You must have a unique artifact name and organization ID to publish your asset.

== View Your Organization ID

To construct the elements of a Maven POM file, you need to determine your organization ID:

> . Log in to Anypoint Platform and click Access Management.

Reviewer: UI label text is formatted in bold:
```suggestion
. Log in to Anypoint Platform and click *Access Management*.
```

> . Click the organization name for the top level or a business group, and view your organization ID in the organization info screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the name of the top-level organization or a business group, and view your organization ID in the organization information screen.
```
"a business group," not necessarily top level, or just "business group," also top level?

> . Copy the organization ID so you can add it to your project's POM file when you follow the examples.

Reviewer: Should we specify what examples, where they reside?

== Publish an Asset to Exchange Using Maven

> This repository shows examples of publishing each asset type with Maven: https://github.com/mulesoft-labs/exchange-documentation-samples

Reviewer: I was momentarily stumped by "This repository" at the beginning of the topic. Perhaps...:
```suggestion
You can view examples of publishing each asset type with Maven in the repository located at `https://github.com/mulesoft-labs/exchange-documentation-samples`.
```

> The steps to publish an asset with Maven are slightly different for each asset type, and different assets use different Maven plugins, so check the examples in the repository for an example that matches your asset type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The steps to publish an asset with Maven are slightly different for each asset type, and different assets use different Maven plugins (example: you can use `exchange-mule-maven-plugin` to publish a custom assets or the `mule-maven-plugin` to publish an extension), so check the examples in the repository for an example that matches your asset type.
```

Author: Thank you! Added.

> Use these steps to publish Mule 3 and Mule 4 assets, including connectors.

Reviewer 2: I would want to write that the following is a particular example to publish some Mule 4 assets (applications, examples and templates) and that the rest are present in the documentation link.

Also, a link to the portal could be used too if you want, as a reference https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-maven-facade-api-http/minor/3.0/pages/home/

Author: Updated.

> Use these steps to publish Mule 3 and Mule 4 assets, including connectors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example of how to publish a Mule Application
```

Reviewer 2: I would add somewhere that `Use mule-maven-plugin to publish Mule 4 assets` and `Use exchange-mule-maven-plugin to publish Custom assets and the other asset types`

Author: Added.

> The following example shows how to publish a Mule 4 asset such as an application, example, or template.

Reviewer: This will have to change when we go to versionless Mule.... Or maybe we can start now? We should ask Duke.

> . In your project's POM file, set the groupId of the Maven project to your organization ID:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In your project's POM file, set the group ID of the Maven project to your organization ID:
```
OR
```suggestion
. In your project's POM file, set `groupId` to your organization ID:
```

If you are publishing your asset to the master organization, the group ID is the same as the organization ID.
The URL format is:
+
`+https://maven.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/maven+`
+
In the EU, use:
+
`+https://maven.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/maven+`
+
If you are publishing your asset to a business group, the group ID is the same as the business group ID.
The URL format is:
+
`+https://maven.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/BUSINESS_GROUP_ID/maven+`
+
In the EU, use:
+
`+https://maven.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/BUSINESS_GROUP_ID/maven+`
+

> . In your project's POM file, add the asset type in the properties section.

Reviewer 2: I would prefer to emphasize that the asset type could be inferred by the classifier of the file. Like: https://github.com/mulesoft-labs/exchange-documentation-samples/blob/master/example/pom.xml#L36 or https://github.com/mulesoft-labs/exchange-documentation-samples/blob/master/mule-app/pom.xml#L35

But it still could be defined by the asset type like this example: https://github.com/mulesoft-labs/exchange-documentation-samples/blob/master/custom-asset/pom.xml#L17

This repository has examples about how to publish any typical maven asset types: https://github.com/mulesoft-labs/exchange-documentation-samples. I would add this since it is not easy to publish using maven for all the asset types and having examples of each one could be very helpful.

Author: Much better! I added a link to the repository, and changed the example to match https://github.com/mulesoft-labs/exchange-documentation-samples/blob/master/example/pom.xml . It may still be useful to go over all of this file with you to make sure it uses the best examples, emphasizes the right things, and leads the user in the right way.

Reviewer 2: agree, let's review it together

If you are publishing your asset to the master organization, the group ID is the same as the organization ID.
The URL format is:
+
`+https://maven.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/maven+`
+

> In the EU, use:

Reviewer: Do we mention earlier that there is a different URL format in the EU, as opposed to...the rest of the world? the US?

+
`+https://maven.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/maven+`
+
If you are publishing your asset to a business group, the group ID is the same as the business group ID.
The URL format is:
+
`+https://maven.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/BUSINESS_GROUP_ID/maven+`
+
In the EU, use:
+
`+https://maven.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/BUSINESS_GROUP_ID/maven+`
+

> . In your project's POM file, include the `mule-maven-plugin` and set the correct classifier (in this example `mule-application-example`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In your project's POM file, include `mule-maven-plugin` and set the correct classifier (in this example `mule-application-example`).
```

+
In this example, it is not necessary to set the asset type because it is inferred from the classifier.
+

> For example:

Reviewer: GLOBALLY avoid using this phrase alone to introduce something.

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
...
<name>Hello World Application Example</name>
<description>A mule application example uploaded using Exchange Maven Facade v3</description>
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.mule.tools.maven</groupId>
            <artifactId>mule-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>3.5.0</version>
            <extensions>true</extensions>
            <configuration>
                <classifier>mule-application</classifier>
            </configuration>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
...
----
+

> *Notes:*

Reviewer: This is a vague heading that often results in a bunch of unrelated information being lumped together.
Are these actually Prerequisites that the audience should know before performing the task?
Or maybe this should be identified as a Requirements list/text?
Be sure to follow our step and list format by limiting the item to one fragment or sentence, followed by further details in a separate paragraph below the listed text:

** The `name` property is required and represents the visible name of the asset. 
+
If you are publishing the first version of a GA (GroupId and AssetId combination), the asset name is taken from the POM file. If there is already at least one version of the GA, the `name` property is ignored. You can change the name in the asset portal as described in xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc[Describe an Asset].

+

> ** *Important:* The `<classifier>` element must be set to make the asset visible in Exchange.

Reviewer: Avoid using bold for something important; use a notice format instead. However, I suggest making importance obvious by placement and context within the running narrative instead. In this case, I wonder if this is a prerequisite? Using that label, or calling it a "requirement," emphasizes the importance.

This could also be written in active voice.

> ** The `name` property is required and represents the visible name of the asset. If you are publishing the first version of a GA (GroupId and AssetId combination), the asset name is taken from the POM file. If there is already at least one version of the GA, the `name` property is ignored. You can change the name in the asset portal as described in xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc[Describe an Asset].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** The `name` property is required and represents the visible name of the asset. 
+
If you are publishing the first version of a GA (GroupId and AssetId combination), the asset name is taken from the POM file. If there is already at least one version of the GA, the `name` property is ignored. You can change the name in the asset portal as described in xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc[Describe an Asset].
```

> ** The `description` property is optional and represents the description of the asset. If you are publishing the first version of a GA (GroupId and AssetId combination), the asset description is taken from the POM file. If there is already at least one version of the GA, the `description` property is ignored. You can change the description in the asset portal as described in xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc[Describe an Asset].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** The `description` property is optional and represents the description of the asset. 
+
If you are publishing the first version of a GA (GroupId and AssetId combination), the asset description is taken from the POM file. If there is already at least one version of the GA, the `description` property is ignored. You can change the description in the asset portal as described in xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc[Describe an Asset].
```

> ** Deploy Mule 3 applications by setting the property `<type>` to `app`. The asset is not displayed in the Exchange asset list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Deploy Mule 3 applications by setting the property `<type>` to `app`. 
+
The asset is not displayed in the Exchange asset list.
```

> ** Deploy Mule 3 `templates` and `examples` by using Anypoint Studio 6.3 or above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Deploy Mule 3 `templates` and `examples` by using Anypoint Studio 6.3 or later.
```

> ** For Mule 4 assets, do not specify the `<type>` element. In the `mule-maven-plugin` configuration, set `<classifier>` as `mule-application` (default), `mule-application-template`, `mule-application-example`, or `mule-policy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For Mule 4 assets, do not specify the `<type>` element. 
+
In the `mule-maven-plugin` configuration, set `<classifier>` as `mule-application` (default), `mule-application-template`, `mule-application-example`, or `mule-policy`.
```

If you are publishing your asset to the master organization, the group ID is the same as the organization ID.
The URL format is:
+
`+https://maven.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/maven+`
+
In the EU, use:
+
`+https://maven.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/maven+`
+
If you are publishing your asset to a business group, the group ID is the same as the business group ID.
The URL format is:
+
`+https://maven.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/BUSINESS_GROUP_ID/maven+`
+
In the EU, use:
+
`+https://maven.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/BUSINESS_GROUP_ID/maven+`
+
. In your project's POM file, include the `mule-maven-plugin` and set the correct classifier (in this example `mule-application-example`).
+
In this example, it is not necessary to set the asset type because it is inferred from the classifier.
+
For example:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
...
<name>Hello World Application Example</name>
<description>A mule application example uploaded using Exchange Maven Facade v3</description>

> <build>
>     <testResources>
>         <testResource>
>             <directory>src/test/munit</directory>
>             <filtering>true</filtering>
>         </testResource>
>     </testResources>
>     <plugins>
>         <plugin>
>             <groupId>org.mule.tools.maven</groupId>
>             <artifactId>mule-maven-plugin</artifactId>
>             <version>${mule.maven.plugin.version}</version>
>             <extensions>true</extensions>
>             <configuration>
>                 <classifier>mule-application-example</classifier>
>             </configuration>
>         </plugin>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <name>Hello World Application Example</name>
    <description>A mule application example uploaded using Exchange Maven Facade v3</description>
    <build>
        <plugins>
            <plugin>
                <groupId>org.mule.tools.maven</groupId>
                <artifactId>mule-maven-plugin</artifactId>
                <version>3.5.0</version>
                <extensions>true</extensions>
                <configuration>
                    <classifier>mule-application</classifier>
                </configuration>
            </plugin>
        </plugins>
    </build>
```

Author: Updated.

...
----
+
*Notes:*
+
** *Important:* The `<classifier>` element must be set to make the asset visible in Exchange.
** The `name` property is required and represents the visible name of the asset. If you are publishing the first version of a GA (GroupId and AssetId combination), the asset name is taken from the POM file. If there is already at least one version of the GA, the `name` property is ignored. You can change the name in the asset portal as described in xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc[Describe an Asset].
** The `description` property is optional and represents the description of the asset. If you are publishing the first version of a GA (GroupId and AssetId combination), the asset description is taken from the POM file. If there is already at least one version of the GA, the `description` property is ignored. You can change the description in the asset portal as described in xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc[Describe an Asset].
** Deploy Mule 3 applications by setting the property `<type>` to `app`. The asset is not displayed in the Exchange asset list.
** Deploy Mule 3 `templates` and `examples` by using Anypoint Studio 6.3 or above.

> ** For Mule 3 or Mule 4 connectors, do not specify a `<type>` value. The Maven Facade determines the type automatically from the classifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed.

    <repository>
      <id>Repository</id>
      <name>Corporate Repository</name>
      <url>https://maven.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/maven</url>
      <layout>default</layout>
    </repository>
  </distributionManagement>
  ...
----
+

> *Note:* The `<id>` and `<name>` elements are arbitrary names you create to identify the repository and any other organizational identifiers. The `<id>` value must be the same in the pom.xml file as in the `~/.m2/settings.xml` file. The `<id>` connects the pom.xml file with information to log in to the organization's URL.

Reviewer: Again, this is not the format that we use for a Note notation (which is something delimited by --- coding...you'll need to check with another writer).
However, this could easily be merged into the running narrative.
```suggestion
Note that the `<id>` and `<name>` elements are arbitrary names that you create to identify the repository and any other organizational identifiers. The `<id>` value must be the same in the `pom.xml` file as in the `~/.m2/settings.xml` file. The `<id>` value connects the `pom.xml` file with information to log in the organization's URL.
```

+

> . Update the settings.xml file in your Maven `.m2` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Update the `settings.xml` file in your Maven `.m2` directory.
```

----
mvn deploy
----

> . Search on Exchange for the asset ID to find the asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Search Exchange for the asset ID to find the asset.
```

== Publish a Custom Asset

> Publish custom assets with the `exchange-mule-maven-plugin` plugin. The latest version of this plugin is `0.0.13`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publish custom assets with the `exchange-mule-maven-plugin` plugin. The latest version of this plugin is 0.0.13.
```

> This example shows the `build` section of `pom.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows the `build` section of `pom.xml`:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.mule.tools.maven</groupId>
            <artifactId>exchange-mule-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>0.0.13</version>
            <executions>
                <execution>
                    <id>validate</id>
                    <phase>validate</phase>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>exchange-pre-deploy</goal>
                    </goals>
                </execution>
                <execution>
                    <id>deploy</id>
                    <phase>deploy</phase>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>exchange-deploy</goal>
                    </goals>
                </execution>
            </executions>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
----

=== Troubleshooting

> If the build fails during the deploy stage with a status code of 412 (Precondition Failed), then the `<goal>exchange-pre-deploy</goal>` has not been executed. To fix this error, ensure that goal is set inside the executions section of the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the build fails during deployment with a status code of 412 (Precondition Failed), then `<goal>exchange-pre-deploy</goal>` was not executed. To fix this error, ensure that goal is set inside the executions section of the plugin.
```

----
. Search on Exchange for the asset ID to find the asset.

== Publish a Custom Asset

Publish custom assets with the `exchange-mule-maven-plugin` plugin. The latest version of this plugin is `0.0.13`.

This example shows the `build` section of `pom.xml`.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.mule.tools.maven</groupId>
            <artifactId>exchange-mule-maven-plugin</artifactId>

>             <version>0.0.9</version>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            <version>0.0.13</version>
```

Author: Fixed.

----
mvn deploy
----
. To share the location of an asset, use this URL syntax:
+
----

> https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v3/assets/ORGANIZATION_ID/ASSET_ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v3/assets/GROUP_ID/ASSET_ID
```

Author: Fixed.

----
+

> Replace ORGANIZATION_ID with the Exchange's organization ID and replace ASSET_ID with the asset ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace GROUP_ID with the Exchange's group ID and replace ASSET_ID with the asset ID.  Notice that in most cases the organizationId is the same as the groupId
```

Author: Fixed.

+
In the EU, use:
+
----

> https://eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v3/assets/ORGANIZATION_ID/ASSET_ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
https://eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v3/assets/GROUP_ID/ASSET_ID
```

Author: Fixed.

== Dependencies external to Exchange

Java libraries and POM files can be published as Exchange custom assets.

Mule 4 Extensions that declare dependencies that don't exist in Maven Central or the MuleSoft Maven repositories are not currently supported.

> 

Reviewer 2: I can not select this line
```
When you use Maven Facade to publish connectors, examples and templates, a documentation portal is automatically created for them in Exchange and you can xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc[document them normally].
```

but let's change it to:

```
When you use Maven Facade to publish connectors, policies, customs, examples and templates, a documentation portal is automatically created for them in Exchange and you can xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc[document them normally].
```

Author: Good point. Done.

== Dependencies external to Exchange

> Java libraries and POM files can be published as Exchange custom assets.

Reviewer: Use active voice?

Mule 4 Extensions that declare dependencies that don't exist in Maven Central or the MuleSoft Maven repositories are not currently supported.

> == Document your Exchange Assets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Document Your Exchange Assets
```

When you use Maven Facade to publish an asset to Exchange, a documentation portal is automatically created for it in Exchange and you can xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc[document it normally].

== Consume an Exchange Asset with Maven

> With Maven Facade you can consume assets published in Exchange, including connectors, Mule applications, and REST APIs. To consume an Exchange asset, add the asset's groupID, artifactID, and version to the `dependencies` section of your project's pom.xml file,

Reviewer: Anypoint Connectors?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Maven Facade you can consume assets published in Exchange, including connectors, Mule applications, and REST APIs. To consume an Exchange asset, add the asset's group ID, artifact ID, and version to the `dependencies` section of your project's `pom.xml` file,
```

    <repository>
      <id>Repository</id>
      <name>Corporate Repository</name>
      <url>https://maven.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/maven</url>
      <layout>default</layout>
    </repository>
  </repositories>
 ...
</project>
----

> Replace ORGANIZATION_ID with your organization ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `ORGANIZATION_ID` with your organization ID.
```

> You can use `+https://maven.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/maven+` as a valid URL for the `+<url>+` value, as this is the default to publish to the master organization. In the EU, use `+https://maven.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/maven+` as the URL.

Reviewer: internationalization:
```suggestion
You can use `+https://maven.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/maven+` as a valid URL for the `+<url>+` value, because this is the default to publish to the master organization. In the EU, use `+https://maven.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/api/v3/maven+` as the URL.
```
